What is state when they say state.
I basically mean data.
I mean data that we use in our application in different ways and all the different kind of data.
I like to think of state as one of three things.
First there is something which I like to call user interface state UI state.
Then there also is temporary or local state and persistent state.
Now these are really just terms I came up with.
It's not a hard definition or anything like that but these are the three categories of data or a state
we're working with in our application.
Now what do I mean with each category.
User Interface state means answers to questions like are we loading something.
So if in a component we're having it is loading property and we're setting this property to True.
When we start fetching data from a server and we set it to false once we're done and we're using that
data to then show a spinner then we're effectively using user interface state because the state of this
component and of what we render on the user interface changed we showed a spinner was we're loading
data now it is is not a state that affects our entire application it affects the page we're on because
where we want to show a spinner and therefore this is what I like to call UI state because it influences
the user interface and it Zephyr managed instead of the component that is responsible for rendering
that part of the user interface now temporary or local state is a bit more than that.
This could be for example a list of loaded events now such a list could be used in different places
of our application we could have a component a page where we render rendered at least.
But when we then added one of the items we basically use data from that same list you could say and
therefore this typically is data which we manage inside of services in an angular application because
serve as this and angular are our cross component communication vehicles if you want to call them like
this and they're all too perfect for letting a component noted our state changed no last but not least
we have that concept or that thing which I like to call persistent state.
Now what's that well the list of loaded events for example would be data we use in the app and we load
these events whenever we added a new one or when our application starts now.
The persistence state is basically our data our state that must not get lost by the user or closing
the application or even by uninstalling the application.
If you're using Facebook you don't want to lose all your friends just because you uninstall t Facebook
app and therefore this could all the be the list of all the events but not just off the events we loaded
in our application even if we happened to load all.
But here I really mean the data that we definitely need for our application and that glues together
our application and therefore design is typically not managed inside of the app or in memory or not
even on on device storage where it could get lost if the user erases his device but on a back and on
a server in a database there.
So this is decoupled from our app but of course still in our app we write code to fetch our data from
there and to save it on a server.
Now for all that data management with a back end with a server with a data base I'll have a separate
module so we'll not focus on that type of state and this module will focus on the UI state and the temporary
and local state in this module.
So Dan for let's in and let's have a look at our application and use all that user input we're fetching
already.